Add a topic around voice support (#7072)
microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/editor/voice.md

---
Order:
Area: editor
TOCTitle: Accessibility
ContentId:
PageTitle: Using Voice in Visual Studio Code
DateApproved:
MetaDescription: Visual Studio Code voice accessibility features. Learn here about the various ways VS Code can be used with voice.
---
# Voice Support

Microsoft publishes the [VS Code Speech](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.vscode-speech) extension to enable various features through the power of just using your voice. Once installed, it allows you to dictate into the editor, or use your voice to talk directly into the [GitHub Copilot Chat](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.copilot-chat) feature.

![VS Code Speech Extension](images/accessibility/speech-extension.png)

## Editor Dictation

You can dictate into the editor via these commands: **Voice: Start Dictation in Editor** (`kb(workbench.action.editorDictation.start)`) and **Voice: Stop Dictation in Editor** (`kb(workbench.action.editorDictation.stop)`). Once started, a little microphone icon appears where the cursor is, awaiting your voice input:

![Editor Dictation Mode](images/accessibility/editor-dictate.png)

> You can press and hold the keybinding for the start command (`kb(workbench.action.editorDictation.start)`) to enable walky-talky mode, where the voice recognition stops as soon as you release the keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can press and hold the keybinding for the voice start command (`kb(workbench.action.editorDictation.start)`) to enable **walky-talky mode**. Voice recognition is active until you release the keys, after which the request is submitted automatically.
```

**Note:** dictation even works in other places where a rich editor is used, such as the SCM commit input box and the comments input field when reviewing pull requests.

## Voice in GitHub Copilot Chat

> You can use your voice to talk to [GitHub Copilot Chat](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.copilot-chat) easily. The command **Voice: Start Voice Chat** (`kb(workbench.action.chat.startVoiceChat)`) works everywhere and brings up a voice chat, depending on where your focus is (inline chat in the editor, panel chat otherwise).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use your voice to talk to [GitHub Copilot Chat](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.copilot-chat) easily. The command **Voice: Start Voice Chat** (`kb(workbench.action.chat.startVoiceChat)`) brings up a voice chat, regardless of where the current focus is. If the focus is in the editor, inline chat is started, otherwise the Chat view is opened.
```

![Voice Chat](images/accessibility/voice-chat.png)

> To enable walky-talky mode, press and hold the keybinding. Voice recognition is active until you release the keys, after which the request is submitted automatically.

Reviewer: This is a repeat of above. Maybe we can dedicate a section to walky-talky mode?

> ## Using Other Languages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Support for multiple languages
```

You can select from one of the 26 supported languages by using the `accessibility.voice.speechLanguage` setting.

Each language for the speech extension comes as its own extension. When you start speech recognition for the first time, you will see an extension installation for each language you selected.

## Next steps

Read on to find out about:

> * [Visual Studio Code User Interface](/docs/getstarted/userinterface.md) - A quick orientation to VS Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Other VS Code accessibility features](/docs/editor/accessibility.md).
* [Visual Studio Code User Interface](/docs/getstarted/userinterface.md) - A quick orientation to VS Code.
```

---
Order:
Area: editor
TOCTitle: Voice interactions
ContentId: e3bf9098-7b2f-4b23-9e0f-3d2094bad80a
PageTitle: Using Voice in Visual Studio Code
DateApproved:
MetaDescription: Visual Studio Code voice accessibility features. Learn here about the various ways VS Code can be used with voice.
---
# Voice Support

> Microsoft publishes the [VS Code Speech](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.vscode-speech) extension to enable various features through the power of only using your voice. Once installed, the extension enables you to dictate into the editor, or to verbally interact with [GitHub Copilot Chat](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.copilot-chat).

Reviewer 2: "Through the power of only using your voice" - can we tighten this up?
For example "Through the power of your voice"
I mean you can use this feature in combination with the keyboard/mouse.

> Microsoft publishes the [VS Code Speech](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.vscode-speech) extension to enable various features through the power of only using your voice. Once installed, the extension enables you to dictate into the editor, or to verbally interact with [GitHub Copilot Chat](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.copilot-chat).

Reviewer 2: I find this start weird "Microsoft publishes" as if some giant corp is in charge of this extension. You are the owner :)
Can we just start with "VS Code Speech...

![Screenshot of the VS Code Speech extension marketplace details](images/accessibility/speech-extension.png)

**Note:** voice support in VS Code does not require you to be online. Recordings are never sent to any online service but computed local on your machine.

## Editor dictation

You can dictate into the editor via these commands: **Voice: Start Dictation in Editor** (`kb(workbench.action.editorDictation.start)`) and **Voice: Stop Dictation in Editor** (`kb(workbench.action.editorDictation.stop)`). Once started, a little microphone icon appears where the cursor is, awaiting your voice input:

![Editor Dictation Mode](images/accessibility/editor-dictate.png)

You can press and hold the keybinding for the voice start command (`kb(workbench.action.editorDictation.start)`) to enable **walky-talky mode**. Voice recognition is active until you release the keys, after which the request is submitted automatically.

**Note:** dictation even works in other places where a rich editor is used, such as the SCM commit input box and the comments input field when reviewing pull requests.

## Voice in GitHub Copilot Chat

> You can use your voice to talk to [GitHub Copilot Chat](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.copilot-chat) easily. The command **Voice: Start Voice Chat** (`kb(workbench.action.chat.startVoiceChat)`) brings up a voice chat, regardless of where the current focus is. If the focus is in the editor, inline chat is started, otherwise the Chat view is opened.

Reviewer 2: Should we make a point in this section, that Voice works particularly well with GitHub Copilot. Because the language models that are powering GitHub Copilot do not expect 100% precise input?

Author: I am not sure its worth to shout this out. This might indicate that we are not confident with the transcription results?

Reviewer 2: That's fair. Let's mark this as resolved.

## Walky talky mode

When using keyboard shortcuts to start voice (`kb(workbench.action.editorDictation.start)` or `kb(workbench.action.chat.startVoiceChat)`), either in the editor or chat, you can press and hold the keybinding to start the voice recognition. When you release the keybinding, voice recognition will stop. In addition, when used in chat, the prompt will be submitted.

## "Hey Code"

It is possible to enable a mode where VS Code will always listen for the phrase "Hey Code" to start a voice chat session. Configure the `accessibility.voice.keywordActivation` setting accordingly to enable this. When VS Code is listening for "Hey Code", a microphone icon appears in the status bar to indicate as such:

![Screenshot of a status bar entry to signal active listening to "Hey Code"](images/accessibility/hey-code.png)

## Support for multiple languages

You can select from one of the 26 supported languages by using the `accessibility.voice.speechLanguage` setting.

Each language for the speech extension comes as its own extension. When you start speech recognition for the first time, you will see an extension installation for each language you selected.

> ## Next steps

Reviewer 2: Should we have a call to action to ask for feedback?
I feel like this feature is still pretty new and we could mention that any feedback is welcome?

Maybe not needed. Not sure.

Author: Yeah, though thats probably true for a lot of docs pages. Should there be a generic button in the docs to report issues or feedback? I think that would be cool.

Reviewer: We have feedback buttons in the right sidebar to either ask for features or report issues :)
![image](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-docs/assets/1908215/5ae84d55-b210-463e-83b5-05e7038ae050)

Author: But is that to report issues about the docs or the product?

Reviewer: Those are for product issues and feedback. Docs feedback is with the control at the bottom of the docs page (Yes/No and follow-up verbatim feedback).
